ID: dpdpa_005
section 6 and section 13; and
(iii) the manner in which the Data Principal may make a complaint to the Board,
in such manner and as may be prescribed.
Illustration.
X, an individual, opens a bank account using the mobile app or website of Y, a bank.
To complete the Know-Your-Customer requirements under law for opening of bank account,
X opts for processing of her personal data by Y in a live, video-based customer identification
process. Y shall accompany or precede the request for the personal data with notice to X,
describing the personal data and the purpose of its processing.
(2) Where a Data Principal has given her consent for the processing of her personal
data before the date of commencement of this Act,—
(a) the Data Fiduciary shall, as soon as it is reasonably practicable, give to the
Data Principal a notice informing her,––
(i) the personal data and the purpose for which the same has been
processed;
(ii) the manner in which she may exercise her rights under sub-section (4)
of section 6 and section 13; and
(iii) the manner in which the Data Principal may make a complaint to the
Board,
in such manner and as may be prescribed.
Grounds for
processing
personal data.
Notice.

SEC. 1]
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
5
(b) the Data Fiduciary may continue to process the personal data until and
unless the Data Principal withdraws her consent.
Illustration.
X, an individual, gave her consent to the processing of her personal data for an online
shopping app or website operated by Y, an e-commerce service provider, before the
commencement of this Act. Upon commencement of the Act, Y shall, as soon as practicable,
give through email, in-app notification or other effective method information to X, describing
the personal data and the purpose of its processing.
(3) The Data Fiduciary shall give the Data Principal the option to access the contents
of the notice referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) in English or any language specified in
the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution.
----------------------------------------
ID: dpdpa_006
6. (1) The consent given by the Data Principal shall be free, specific, informed,
unconditional and unambiguous with a clear affirmative action, and shall signify an
agreement to the processing of her personal data for the specified purpose and be limited to
such personal data as is necessary for such specified purpose.
Illustration.
X, an individual, downloads Y, a telemedicine app. Y requests the consent of X for (i)
the processing of her personal data for making available telemedicine services, and (ii)
accessing her mobile phone contact list, and X signifies her consent to both. Since phone
contact list is not necessary for making available telemedicine services, her consent shall be
limited to the processing of her personal data for making available telemedicine services.
(2) Any part of consent referred in sub-section (1) which constitutes an infringement
of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder or any other law for the time being
in force shall be invalid to the extent of such infringement.
Illustration.
X, an individual, buys an insurance policy using the mobile app or website of Y, an
insurer. She gives to Y her consent for (i) the processing of her personal data by Y for the
purpose of issuing the policy, and (ii) waiving her right to file a complaint to the Data
Protection Board of India. Part (ii) of the consent, relating to waiver of her right to file a
complaint, shall be invalid.
(3) Every request for consent under the provisions of this Act or the rules made
thereunder shall be presented to the Data Principal in a clear and plain language, giving her
the option to access such request in English or any language specified in the Eighth
Schedule to the Constitution and providing the contact details of a Data Protection Officer,
where applicable, or of any other person authorised by the Data Fiduciary to respond to
any communication from the Data Principal for the purpose of exercise of her rights under
the provisions of this Act.
(4) Where consent given by the Data Principal is the basis of processing of personal
data, such Data Principal shall have the right to withdraw her consent at any time, with the
ease of doing so being comparable to the ease with which such consent was given.
(5) The consequences of the withdrawal referred to in sub-section (4) shall be borne
by the Data Principal, and such withdrawal shall not affect the legality of processing of the
personal data based on consent before its withdrawal.
Illustration.
X, an individual, is the user of an online shopping app or website operated by Y, an
e-commerce service provider. X consents to the processing of her personal data by Y for the
purpose of fulfilling her supply order and places an order for supply of a good while making
payment for the same. If X withdraws her consent, Y may stop enabling X to use the app or
website for placing orders, but may not stop the processing for supply of the goods already
ordered and paid for by X.
(6) If a Data Principal withdraws her consent to the processing of personal data under
sub-section (5), the Data Fiduciary shall, within a reasonable time, cease and cause its Data
Processors to cease processing the personal data of such Data Principal unless such
processing without her consent is required or authorised under the provisions of this Act
or the rules made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force in India.
Consent.

6
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
[PART II—
Illustration.
X, a telecom service provider, enters into a contract with Y, a Data Processor, for
emailing telephone bills to the customers of X. Z, a customer of X, who had earlier given her
consent to X for the processing of her personal data for emailing of bills, downloads the
mobile app of X and opts to receive bills only on the app. X shall itself cease, and shall
cause Y to cease, the processing of the personal data of Z for emailing bills.
(7) The Data Principal may give, manage, review or withdraw her consent to the Data
Fiduciary through a Consent Manager.
(8) The Consent Manager shall be accountable to the Data Principal and shall act on
her behalf in such manner and subject to such obligations as may be prescribed.
(9) Every Consent Manager shall be registered with the Board in such manner and
subject to such technical, operational, financial and other conditions as may be prescribed.
(10) Where a consent given by the Data Principal is the basis of processing of
personal data and a question arises in this regard in a proceeding, the Data Fiduciary shall
be obliged to prove that a notice was given by her to the Data Principal and consent was
given by such Data Principal to the Data Fiduciary in accordance with the provisions of this
Act and the rules made thereunder.
----------------------------------------
ID: dpdpa_036
33. (1) If the Board determines on conclusion of an inquiry that breach of the provisions
of this Act or the rules made thereunder by a person is significant, it may, after giving the
Orders passed
by Appellate
Tribunal to be
executable as
decree.
Alternate
dispute
resolution.
Voluntary
undertaking.
Penalties.
24 of 1997.
24 of 1997.

SEC. 1]
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
17
person an opportunity of being heard, impose such monetary penalty specified in the
Schedule.
(2) While determining the amount of monetary penalty to be imposed under
sub-section (1), the Board shall have regard to the following matters, namely:—
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach;
(b) the type and nature of the personal data affected by the breach;
(c) repetitive nature of the breach;
(d) whether the person, as a result of the breach, has realised a gain or avoided
any loss;
(e) whether the person took any action to mitigate the effects and consequences
of the breach, and the timeliness and effectiveness of such action;
(f) whether the monetary penalty to be imposed is proportionate and effective,
having regard to the need to secure observance of and deter breach of the provisions
of this Act; and
(g) the likely impact of the imposition of the monetary penalty on the person.
----------------------------------------
ID: dpdpa_044
section 9;
(j) the classes of Data Fiduciaries, the purposes of processing of personal data
of a child and the conditions relating thereto, under sub-section (4) of section 9;
(k) the other matters comprising the process of Data Protection Impact
Assessment under sub-clause (i) of clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 10;
(l) the other measures that the Significant Data Fiduciary shall undertake under
sub-clause (iii) of clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 10;
(m) the manner in which a Data Principal shall make a request to the Data
Fiduciary to obtain information and any other information related to the personal data
of such Data Principal and its processing, under sub-section (1) of section 11;
(n) the manner in which a Data Principal shall make a request to the Data
Fiduciary for erasure of her personal data under sub-section (3) of section 12;
(o) the period within which the Data Fiduciary shall respond to any grievances
under sub-section (2) of section 13;
Consistency
with other
laws.
Bar of
jurisdiction.
Power to
make rules.

SEC. 1]
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
19
(p) the manner of nomination of any other individual by the Data Principal
under sub-section (1) of section 14;
(q) the standards for processing the personal data for exemption under clause (b)
of sub-section (2) of section 17;
(r) the manner of appointment of the Chairperson and other Members of the
Board under sub-section (2) of section 19;
(s) the salary, allowances and other terms and conditions of services of the
Chairperson and other Members of the Board under sub-section (1) of section 20;
(t) the manner of authentication of orders, directions and instruments under
sub-section (1) of section 23;
(u) the terms and conditions of appointment and service of officers and
employees of the Board under section 24;
(v) the techno-legal measures to be adopted by the Board under sub-section (1)
of section 28;
(w) the other matters under clause (d) of sub-section (7) of section 28;
(x) the form, manner and fee for filing an appeal under sub-section (2) of
----------------------------------------
ID: dpdpa_047
42. (1) The Central Government may, by notification, amend the Schedule, subject to
the restriction that no such notification shall have the effect of increasing any penalty
specified therein to more than twice of what was specified in it when this Act was originally
enacted.
(2) Any amendment notified under sub-section (1) shall have effect as if enacted in
this Act and shall come into force on the date of the notification.
----------------------------------------
ID: dpdpa_049
44. (1) In section 14 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997, in
clause (c), for sub-clauses (i) and (ii), the following sub-clauses shall be substituted,
namely:—
Laying of
rules and
certain
notifications.
Power to
amend
Schedule.
Power to
remove
difficulties.
Amendments
to certain
Acts.
24 of 1997.

20
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
[PART II—
“(i) the Appellate Tribunal under the Information Technology Act, 2000;
(ii) the Appellate Tribunal under the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority
of India Act, 2008; and
(iii) the Appellate Tribunal under the Digital Personal Data Protection
Act, 2023.”.
(2) The Information Technology Act, 2000 shall be amended in the following manner,
namely:—
(a) section 43A shall be omitted;
(b) in section 81, in the proviso, after the words and figures “the Patents
Act, 1970”, the words and figures “or the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023”
shall be inserted; and
(c) in section 87, in sub-section (2), clause (ob) shall be omitted.
(3) In section 8 of the Right to Information Act, 2005, in sub-section (1), for clause (j),
the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
“(j) information which relates to personal information;”.
21 of 2000.
27 of 2008.
21 of 2000.
39 of 1970.
22 of 2005.

SEC. 1]
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
21
Breach of provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder
(2)
Breach in observing the obligation of Data Fiduciary to
take reasonable security safeguards to prevent personal
data breach under sub-section (5) of section 8.
Breach in observing the obligation to give the Board or
affected Data Principal notice of a personal data breach
under sub-section (6) of section 8.
Breach in observance of additional obligations in relation
to children under section 9.
Breach in observance of additional obligations of
Significant Data Fiduciary under section 10.
Breach in observance of the duties under section 15.
Breach of any term of voluntary undertaking accepted by
the Board under section 32.
Breach of any other provision of this Act or the rules
made thereunder.
Sl. No.
(1)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Penalty
(3)
May extend to two
hundred and fifty
crore rupees.
May extend to two
hundred
crore
rupees.
May extend to two
hundred
crore
rupees.
May extend to one
hundred and fifty
crore rupees.
May extend to ten
thousand rupees.
Up to the extent
applicable for the
breach in respect
of
which
the
proceedings under
----------------------------------------
ID: dpdpa_050
section 28 were
instituted.
May extend to fifty
crore rupees.
THE SCHEDULE
[See section 33 (1)]
————
DR. REETA VASISHTA,
Secretary to the Govt. of India.
UPLOADED BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI–110002
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI–110054.
MGIPMRND—288GI—11-08-2023.
Kshitiz
Mohan
Digitally signed
by Kshitiz Mohan
Date: 2023.08.12
02:14:35 +05'30'
----------------------------------------
